README.md, before:

# IFDB

This is the source code for [IFDB](https://ifdb.org), the Interactive Fiction Database.

# Preparing Your Own Development Environment

The IFDB web app is a LAMP app (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP). The development environment runs on Docker.

1. Install Docker and Docker Compose. [https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

2. Run `./prepare_dev_environment.sh` in this directory. That will download the current latest IFDB database backup from IFArchive, and put it in a place where Docker will expect to find it.

3. Run `docker compose up --build`. That will launch a MySQL Docker container and an Apache container with PHP, available on port 8080.

4. Go to `http://localhost:8080` on your machine. You should see IFDB running. You can login as `ifdbadmin` at `ifdb.org` with the password `secret` to sign in as an administrator. The administrator has access to the "system maintenance panel" at `http://localhost:8080/adminops`.

5. Alternatively, you can login as `test` at `ifdb.org` with the password `secret` to sign in as a regular test user named `Test Tester`.

6. Optionally, you can query the database using phpMyAdmin at `http://localhost:8081` or run `./query-docker.sh` to use the MySQL command-line interface.

# Database Changes

Changes to the web site should update immediately but changes to the database require a few more steps.

Make all database schema and content changes in `./sql/incoming-schema-changes.sql`. After saving your changes, type the following three commands:

```
./prepare_dev_environment.sh
docker compose down
docker compose up --build
```

All of your database changes should now be available.

## Known Issues with the Development Environment

* Sending email doesn't work. That's unfortunate, because if you want to create a user, you'll need to login with an activation code. After you try to create a new user, you should be able to see the email text in the Docker logs. Search for `EMAIL: NOT SENDING EMAIL IN LOCAL DEVELOPMENT MODE`.
* Game box-art images load from the production IFDB site, not the dev environment. IFDB uses a separate "images" database that isn't part of the IFArchive backup. We'll need to generate a backup of that database and make it available on IFArchive, or, at the very least, provide a way for developers to download images from the real IFDB.

## Troubleshooting

To reset the Docker environment, run this:

```
./prepare_dev_environment.sh && docker compose down && docker compose up --build
```

`./prepare_dev_environment.sh` populates the `initdb` directory, which is only run when you `docker compose up` on a container for the _first_ time.

If you just `docker compose up`, it will launch the container you already built. If you `docker compose down` and `docker compose up` without `--build`, it will reuse the existing Docker image, without incorporating changes to the `Dockerfile`.

If you see a 500 error loading `http://localhost:8080`, check the Docker logs. If you see one of these errors, then something went wrong during the `./prepare_dev_environment.sh` step.

* `PHP Warning:  include_once(local-credentials.php): failed to open stream: No such file or directory`
* `PHP Warning:  include_once(): Failed opening 'local-credentials.php' for inclusion`
* `PHP Fatal error:  Uncaught Error: Call to undefined function localCredentials()`

If you see these errors, run `./prepare_dev_environment.sh && docker compose down && docker compose up --build` again.

Commit message:

Add composer, composer require glenscott/url-normalizer

README.md, after:

# IFDB

This is the source code for [IFDB](https://ifdb.org), the Interactive Fiction Database.

# Preparing Your Own Development Environment

The IFDB web app is a LAMP app (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP). The development environment runs on Docker.

1. Install Docker and Docker Compose. [https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

2. Run `./prepare_dev_environment.sh` in this directory. That will download the current latest IFDB database backup from IFArchive, and put it in a place where Docker will expect to find it.

3. Run `docker compose up --build`. That will launch a MySQL Docker container and an Apache container with PHP, available on port 8080.

4. Go to `http://localhost:8080` on your machine. You should see IFDB running. You can login as `ifdbadmin` at `ifdb.org` with the password `secret` to sign in as an administrator. The administrator has access to the "system maintenance panel" at `http://localhost:8080/adminops`.

5. Alternatively, you can login as `test` at `ifdb.org` with the password `secret` to sign in as a regular test user named `Test Tester`.

6. Optionally, you can query the database using phpMyAdmin at `http://localhost:8081` or run `./query-docker.sh` to use the MySQL command-line interface.

# Database Changes

Changes to the web site should update immediately but changes to the database require a few more steps.

Make all database schema and content changes in `./sql/incoming-schema-changes.sql`. After saving your changes, type the following three commands:

```
./prepare_dev_environment.sh
docker compose down
docker compose up --build
```

All of your database changes should now be available.

# Updating PHP dependencies

Our PHP dependencies are checked into `composer.json` and `composer.lock`. To update those files, you'll need to run `composer` inside the Docker container, using the `docker-php-composer.sh` script, like this:

```
docker-php-composer.sh update
docker-php-composer.sh install whatever/dependency
```

## Known Issues with the Development Environment

* Sending email doesn't work. That's unfortunate, because if you want to create a user, you'll need to login with an activation code. After you try to create a new user, you should be able to see the email text in the Docker logs. Search for `EMAIL: NOT SENDING EMAIL IN LOCAL DEVELOPMENT MODE`.
* Game box-art images load from the production IFDB site, not the dev environment. IFDB uses a separate "images" database that isn't part of the IFArchive backup. We'll need to generate a backup of that database and make it available on IFArchive, or, at the very least, provide a way for developers to download images from the real IFDB.

## Troubleshooting

To reset the Docker environment, run this:

```
./prepare_dev_environment.sh && docker compose down && docker compose up --build
```

`./prepare_dev_environment.sh` populates the `initdb` directory, which is only run when you `docker compose up` on a container for the _first_ time.

If you just `docker compose up`, it will launch the container you already built. If you `docker compose down` and `docker compose up` without `--build`, it will reuse the existing Docker image, without incorporating changes to the `Dockerfile`.

If you see a 500 error loading `http://localhost:8080`, check the Docker logs. If you see one of these errors, then something went wrong during the `./prepare_dev_environment.sh` step.

* `PHP Warning:  include_once(local-credentials.php): failed to open stream: No such file or directory`
* `PHP Warning:  include_once(): Failed opening 'local-credentials.php' for inclusion`
* `PHP Fatal error:  Uncaught Error: Call to undefined function localCredentials()`

If you see these errors, run `./prepare_dev_environment.sh && docker compose down && docker compose up --build` again.
