importers/ifcomp/README.md, before:

This importer is designed to grab the game list from https://ifcomp.org/ballot and upload the games to IFDB.

# How to use the scripts

## Phase 1: Create IFDB listings for each game on the ballot

(You can skip this phase if someone has already created IFDB listings for each game.)

1. Run `npm install` to install dependencies.
2. Copy `settings.mjs.template` to `settings.mjs`, putting in your username, password, and the compStartDate. (If you want to test the scripts against a local IFDB dev environment, also change the url to `http://localhost:8080`.)
3. Run `node extract-microdata.mjs` to record the ballot data in `microdata.json`.
4. Run `node process-cover-art.mjs` to download all of the cover art in the `cover-art` directory.
5. Run `node submit-games.mjs` to submit all of the game listings. (Note that when testing in a dev environment, uploaded images will not appear in the web UI.)
6. Run `node merge-tuids.mjs` to record the IFDB TUIDs in `microdata-tuids.json`.
7. Run `node tag-games.mjs` to tag each game with the "IFComp YYYY" tag.
8. In the web UI, create a new competition, open the JS console, and copy and paste the contents of `entrant-creator.js`. It will prompt you for a tag name, and populate the main division with the list of games.

## Phase 2: Add IF Archive external links for each game on the ballot.

This can only happen once all links are visible on IF Archive and each of them has TUID metadata. As a result, these scripts are designed to be able to be run separately, possibly by an entirely different person from the one who created the game listings.

(It's not uncommon for someone to swoop in and manually create all the game listings as soon as the comp starts; that's fine. This script can cope with that.)

1. Run `npm install` to install dependencies.
2. Copy `settings.mjs.template` to `settings.mjs`, putting in your username, password, and the compStartDate. (If you want to test the scripts against a local IFDB dev environment, also change the url to `http://localhost:8080`.)
3. Run `node extract-microdata.mjs` to record the ballot data in `microdata.json`.
6. Run `node merge-tuids.mjs` to record the IFDB TUIDs in `microdata-tuids.json`.
5. Run `node compute-ifarchive-links.mjs` to record the file names in `external-links.json`.
7. Run `node submit-external-links.mjs` to edit each IFDB listing, adding the links we computed.

# List of the scripts

1. `settings.mjs`: All of the other scripts depend on this script. Copy `settings.mjs.template` to `settings.mjs`, putting in your username, password, and the compStartDate. (If you want to test the scripts against a local IFDB dev environment, also change the url to `http://localhost:8080`.)
1. `extract-microdata.mjs`: The IFComp Ballot page is populated with https://schema.org/VideoGame microdata. This script downloads the ballot, reads the microdata, and stores it in a more convenient JSON format, in `microdata.json`.
1. `process-cover-art.mjs`: This script reads `microdata.json` and downloads the cover art for all games. Some games have art too large for IFDB's 256KiB limit, so we convert PNGs to JPG, and try lowering the quality bit by bit until the image is small enough to submit. We deposit the art in the `cover-art` directory, and store a record of our results in `cover-art.json`.
1. `submit-games.mjs`: This script reads `microdata.json` and `cover-art.json`, and uses the IFDB [putific API](https://ifdb.org/api/putific) to create results for all games.

    Initially, we'll create the IFDB entries based on the ballot alone; it will take a few days for IF Archive to accept and process the "big zip" of all competition entries. Once that ZIP is available on ifarchive.org, we can compute and set external links.
1. `merge-tuids.mjs`: Rather than assuming that `submit-games.mjs` was run, we search IFDB for games published in the current year that match the title of the given IFComp game; this gives us the IFDB "TUID" ID of each game in IFComp. This generates `microdata-tuids.json` from `microdata.json`.
1. `tag-games.mjs`: Tag all games in `microdata-tuids.json` with the "IFComp YYYY" tag.
1. `compute-ifarchive-links.mjs`: Computes the correct external link (including the game file in the download ZIP) based on IF Archive's `Master-Index.xml` file. This generates `external-links.json`.
1. `submit-external-links.mjs`: Automatically submits IF Archive download links for all IFComp games, based on `external-links.json`.


TODO

* Duplicate detector
* Bulk delete stale ballot links
* Allow bulk-adding games to competitions https://github.com/iftechfoundation/ifdb-suggestion-tracker/issues/367

Commit message:

ifcomp importer: Add a script to remove ballot links

importers/ifcomp/README.md, after:

This importer is designed to grab the game list from https://ifcomp.org/ballot and upload the games to IFDB.

# How to use the scripts

## Phase 1: Create IFDB listings for each game on the ballot

(You can skip this phase if someone has already created IFDB listings for each game.)

1. Run `npm install` to install dependencies.
2. Copy `settings.mjs.template` to `settings.mjs`, putting in your username, password, and the compStartDate. (If you want to test the scripts against a local IFDB dev environment, also change the url to `http://localhost:8080`.)
3. Run `node extract-microdata.mjs` to record the ballot data in `microdata.json`.
4. Run `node process-cover-art.mjs` to download all of the cover art in the `cover-art` directory.
5. Run `node submit-games.mjs` to submit all of the game listings. (Note that when testing in a dev environment, uploaded images will not appear in the web UI.)
6. Run `node merge-tuids.mjs` to record the IFDB TUIDs in `microdata-tuids.json`.
7. Run `node tag-games.mjs` to tag each game with the "IFComp YYYY" tag.
8. In the web UI, create a new competition, open the JS console, and copy and paste the contents of `entrant-creator.js`. It will prompt you for a tag name, and populate the main division with the list of games.

## Phase 2: Add IF Archive external links for each game on the ballot.

This can only happen once all links are visible on IF Archive and each of them has TUID metadata. As a result, these scripts are designed to be able to be run separately, possibly by an entirely different person from the one who created the game listings.

(It's not uncommon for someone to swoop in and manually create all the game listings as soon as the comp starts; that's fine. This script can cope with that.)

1. Run `npm install` to install dependencies.
2. Copy `settings.mjs.template` to `settings.mjs`, putting in your username, password, and the compStartDate. (If you want to test the scripts against a local IFDB dev environment, also change the url to `http://localhost:8080`.)
3. Run `node extract-microdata.mjs` to record the ballot data in `microdata.json`.
6. Run `node merge-tuids.mjs` to record the IFDB TUIDs in `microdata-tuids.json`.
5. Run `node compute-ifarchive-links.mjs` to record the file names in `external-links.json`.
7. Run `node submit-external-links.mjs` to edit each IFDB listing, adding the links we computed.

## Phase 3: Remove ballot links

The ballot links stop working after the competition ends.

1. Run `npm install` to install dependencies.
2. Copy `settings.mjs.template` to `settings.mjs`, putting in your username, password, and the compStartDate. (If you want to test the scripts against a local IFDB dev environment, also change the url to `http://localhost:8080`.)
3. Run `node remove-ballot-links.mjs` to remove all of the ballot links. The IF Archive links will be the only remaining "Play Online" options for IFComp games.

# List of the scripts

1. `settings.mjs`: All of the other scripts depend on this script. Copy `settings.mjs.template` to `settings.mjs`, putting in your username, password, and the compStartDate. (If you want to test the scripts against a local IFDB dev environment, also change the url to `http://localhost:8080`.)
1. `extract-microdata.mjs`: The IFComp Ballot page is populated with https://schema.org/VideoGame microdata. This script downloads the ballot, reads the microdata, and stores it in a more convenient JSON format, in `microdata.json`.
1. `process-cover-art.mjs`: This script reads `microdata.json` and downloads the cover art for all games. Some games have art too large for IFDB's 256KiB limit, so we convert PNGs to JPG, and try lowering the quality bit by bit until the image is small enough to submit. We deposit the art in the `cover-art` directory, and store a record of our results in `cover-art.json`.
1. `submit-games.mjs`: This script reads `microdata.json` and `cover-art.json`, and uses the IFDB [putific API](https://ifdb.org/api/putific) to create results for all games.

    Initially, we'll create the IFDB entries based on the ballot alone; it will take a few days for IF Archive to accept and process the "big zip" of all competition entries. Once that ZIP is available on ifarchive.org, we can compute and set external links.
1. `merge-tuids.mjs`: Rather than assuming that `submit-games.mjs` was run, we search IFDB for games published in the current year that match the title of the given IFComp game; this gives us the IFDB "TUID" ID of each game in IFComp. This generates `microdata-tuids.json` from `microdata.json`.
1. `tag-games.mjs`: Tag all games in `microdata-tuids.json` with the "IFComp YYYY" tag.
1. `compute-ifarchive-links.mjs`: Computes the correct external link (including the game file in the download ZIP) based on IF Archive's `Master-Index.xml` file. This generates `external-links.json`.
1. `submit-external-links.mjs`: Automatically submits IF Archive download links for all IFComp games, based on `external-links.json`.
1. `remove-ballot-links.mjs`: Removes `https://ifcomp.org/ballot` links from this year's competition entries. (The ballot links stop working after the competition ends.)

TODO

* Duplicate detector
* Allow bulk-adding games to competitions https://github.com/iftechfoundation/ifdb-suggestion-tracker/issues/367
