<?php

include_once "pagetpl.php";

pageHeader("IFDB Copyright and Trademark Information");

?>

<h1>Copyrights</h1>

<p>This site is copyrighted &copy; 2007, <?php echo date('Y') ?> by
Michael J. Roberts.

<p>Reviews from
<a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20110109233058/http://www.wurb.com/if">
Baf's Guide to the IF Archive</a> are copyrighted by their respective
authors and are used here by permission.  Baf's Guide is copyrighted
&copy; 2007 by Carl Muckenhoupt.

<p>"Cover art" images (in game listings) and personal profile images
have individual copyrights that are indicated in the full-size view of
each image.  When not otherwise specified, these images are
copyrighted by their respective authors.

<p>User-contributed items (such as reviews, bibliographical data,
comments, and news items), except as noted above, are copyrighted by
their credited authors and are licensed under a <a rel="license"
href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/us/">Creative
Commons Attribution 3.0 United States license</a>, as described in our
<a href="tos">Terms of Service</a>.

<p>Please note that the games themselves cataloged on IFDB are
<b>not</b> user-contributed items, and thus are <b>not</b> subject to
the Creative Commons license.  IFDB doesn't store any games - just
metadata <b>about</b> the games, such as bibliography and reviews.
Each game's copyright and license terms are set exclusively by the
game's author(s), and inclusion in IFDB does not in any way affect those
terms.


<h2>Trademarks</h2>

<p>Any trademarks, service marks, or similar marks or rights mentioned
in any game listing or other material on this site are the property of
their respective owners.  They are used here for informational and
educational purposes only, and do not imply any affiliation with or
endorsement by their holders.

<h2>For More Information</h2>

<p>Please <a href="contact">contact us</a> with any questions.

<?php

pageFooter();

?>
