<?php
include_once "util.php";
include_once "pagetpl.php";
varPageHeader("IFDB Privacy Policy", false, get_req_data('helpwin'));
?>

<h1>IFDB Privacy Policy</h1>

<p>You can access many IFDB features without giving us any personal
information (beyond what your browser routinely transmits every
time you view a Web page).

<p>Some features on this site require user registration.  You don't
have to register if you don't want to use those features.  If you do
choose to register, we won't sell, rent, or otherwise attempt to
commercially exploit any personal information you give us when your
register.  Some information you enter might be displayed on the site
for other users to see; we try to make it clear when you enter profile
information which parts are visible to other users and which parts are
not.  Beyond the information that's displayed to other users on the
site, we won't share your registration information with anyone else
(unless we're legally compelled to do so, such as by a law enforcement
agency or court).  We won't send you any email except for necessary
administrative messages (for example, we send a confirmation message
when you first register so that we can verify that you entered a valid
address).

<p>Cookies are small files that your browser stores on your computer
on behalf of our server.  We currently use cookies to allow you to
stay logged in without having to re-enter your user credentials each
time you return to the site; we only do this at your request, and
cookies are only required if you wish to use this feature.  Our
cookies don't contain your password or any other personal information.

<p>You should be aware that when you access <i>any</i> web site, your
computer's IP address (the network address assigned to you by your
Internet Service Provider) is visible to the site's servers and is
usually recorded in a log file.  It's often technically possible to
connect this information to you personally.  We currently make no
attempt to do this, although our hosting service conceivably could
(even without our involvement or knowledge), as they operate the
physical servers that handle our traffic.  Most Web browsers also
expose certain information to the server, such as the browser version
and the type of computer and operating system you're using, although
none of that is typically personally identifiable.

<?php
varPageFooter(get_req_data('helpwin'));
?>
